Histamine antagonists or antihistamines,
are drugs that relieve allergy symptoms.
Histamine is a chemical used to identify and remove
substances that trigger an allergic response.
There are four histamine receptors,
designated H1, H2, H3, H4.
When histamine activates H1 receptors
symptoms such as rashes, itching, watery eyes
and trouble breathing may begin.
Antihistamines prevent histamine from stimulating
the H1 receptors located in the eyes, nose and throat,
to relieve swelling and stop leaking fluid.
First generation antihistamines
were non-selective for H1 receptors
and crossed into the brain, resulting in drowsiness.
Newer antihistamines are more selective, reducing this side effect.